The apostle Paul
wrote to Christians in Thessalonica:
“We became gentle in your midst,
“as when a nursing mother
tenderly cares for her own children.
“So having tender affection for you,
“we were determined to impart to you,
“not only the good news of God
but also our very selves,
because you became so beloved to us.”
Paul cared,
and his fellow believers could sense
that by the way he spoke to them.
This made his teaching more effective.
Likewise, if our audience feels
that we genuinely care for them
—that we’re not there simply to deliver
information or fulfill an assignment—
they’ll be more likely to listen and respond.
So how can we show
genuine warmth and empathy?
We need to think about our listeners.
For example, before going in the ministry,
reflect on specific problems that people
in the territory are concerned about.
What are their beliefs?
Try to imagine how they feel.
When preparing a talk,
remind yourself of what
your brothers and sisters may be facing
and how you can encourage them.
Then use expressions that refresh,
comfort, and invigorate your listeners.
Be careful not to speak disparagingly
of people or their beliefs.
When conversing with older people
or those in authority,
use words that show respect.
Let’s watch a brother giving a public talk.
Do his words show
empathy for his audience?
The evolution theory is very popular today.
But it’s hard to understand
how intelligent people
could believe such an illogical theory.
Many believe it simply
because so-called educated people do,
including many scientists.
So how can we help them
to examine matters for themselves
and see how ridiculous evolution is?
If someone in the audience
believed in evolution,
how would he feel?
Let’s watch the speaker try again
but this time with more empathy.
The evolution theory is very popular today.
But why do many people believe it?
Perhaps they were taught evolution in school
and were offered
no other plausible explanation.
How can we help people
to examine the facts for themselves?
This time, the speaker didn’t insult people
because of their viewpoint.
At the same time,
he aroused interest in additional facts
that are worthy of consideration.
What else can indicate warmth and empathy?
Tone—not just what you say
but how you say it.
A warm tone of voice
along with appropriate gestures
and facial expressions
shows sincere interest.
Let’s watch a publisher
in the house-to-house ministry.
Does she show
interest by the way she speaks?
I’m sorry.
I can’t talk to you today.
I just lost my mother, and I’m meeting
with the funeral director this afternoon.
I’m sorry.
It’s so painful when a loved one dies.
When I lost my mother a few years ago,
I found some Bible verses
to be very comforting.
Although there was nothing wrong
with what our sister said,
her delivery lacked warmth and empathy.
Let’s give her a second chance.
I’m sorry.
It’s so painful when a loved one dies.
When I lost my mother a few years ago,
I found some Bible verses
to be very comforting.
Some of them are in this tract.
But maybe we can discuss
them briefly another time.
Our sister said exactly the same thing,
but this time she spoke with emotion,
and so her words were more effective.
When we speak with genuine emotion,
we show our listeners that we care.
But be careful not to force
or exaggerate emotions.
If you’re reading a scripture,
try to express the feelings
indicated in the passage,
but don’t draw undue attention to yourself.
So by thinking about your listeners,
choosing your words carefully,
and showing your interest,
you’ll refresh, comfort,
and invigorate your listeners.